= Rocksteady

This rake-based library lets you run defined scenarios across multiple git repositories at arbitrary HEADs.  It's meant primarily as an easy way to test compatibility.

== Author

Bruce Williams (http://codefluency.com)
http://github.com/bruce

Please let me know if you're using Rocksteady; I enjoy hearing how my software is being used.

== Premise

Often you need to test bits of code you write with bits of code other people write, across varying revisions.  This is tedious, requiring a lot of custom code and infrastructure, so you probably don't do it enough.  I know I don't, and it's a bad habit.

Rocksteady is meant to ease the process of switching out different versions of inter-dependent code, providing you with a simple _scenario_ metaphor to write build and test code within.  It's test framework agnostic (just depending on exit codes), and extremely flexible.  We'll work through a simple example below.

== Defining Scenarios

Create a new directory, and toss a <tt>Rakefile</tt> in it.  Make it look like this:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'rocksteady'
  
Now, point it at the git repos that are holding the code you'd like to test.  You could <tt>clone</tt> the repos somewhere in this directory, if you'd like.  For this example, we'll be testing a Rails plugin we've written against various versions of Rails, so it like look something like this (assuming we cloned bare <tt>.git</tt> repos into the current directory)

  repos 'rails.git', 'our_plugin.git'
  
Okay, now let just create a single scenario.  In general, a scenario will be some set of configuration you'd like to test.  For this example we won't be doing anything fancy (just a simple drop in <tt>vendor/plugins</tt>) so it might look like this:

  scenario "Installed in vendor/plugins" do
    generate_rails_app
    install_plugin
    verify_loads_environment
  end
  
You see 3 things need to happen in the scenario; we've broken these out for clarity and just define them underneath:

First, let's generate a fresh Rails app for testing with:

  def generate_rails_app
    ruby "#{rails_path}/railties/bin/rails rails_app"
  end
  
A few notes on what you see above:

0. <tt>ruby</tt> is simply a <tt>rake</tt> convenience method that calls out to a new <tt>ruby</tt> interpreter
0. <tt>rails_path</tt> is the absolute path to a fresh clone of the <tt>rails.git</tt> repo we defined at the beginning of the file, checked-out to the reference point we're currently checking (more on how that's set later).  <tt>*_path</tt> convenience methods are generated for all the repos you've defined; you'll see the other one in <tt>install_plugin</tt>.
0. We're calling out to the <tt>rails</tt> executable in the checked-out source directly so we can generate an accurate skeleton app for that version.  The <tt>rails_app</tt> argument is just the name of the directory where it will be generated.

It's worth noting that when scenarios are being run, the current working directory is changed for you automatically; right now you're actually sitting in <tt>build/<timestamp>/scenarios/installed_in_vendor_plugins</tt>, where <tt>rails_app</tt> will be generated as a subdirectory.

Let's install the plugin now:

  def install_plugin
    cp_r our_plugin_path, 'rails_app/vendor/plugins'
  end
  
0. <tt>cp_r</tt> is another <tt>rake</tt> convenience method that does a recursive copy.
0. <tt>our_plugin_path</tt> is the <tt>*_path</tt> method generated automatically for our plugin repo.

So, that was simple; for this quick example we just copy the plugin directly in.

Now let's do something that just verifies the Rails app code will load successfully across the standard environments, just by printing the Rails version from <tt>script/runner</tt>:

  def verify_loads_environment
    Dir.chdir 'rails_app' do
      %w(test development production).each do |env|
        ENV['RAILS_ENV'] = env
        ruby "script/runner 'p Rails::VERSION'"
      end
    end
  end
  
The great thing about the convenience methods that <tt>rake</tt> provides (eg, <tt>ruby</tt>, <tt>sh</tt>, <tt>cp_r</tt>, etc) is that the raise an exception if the system call they make returns a bad exit code; the scenario automatically catches them and assigns a _failure_ to the scenario.  If you're not using these convenience methods and need to assign a failure, you can raise an exception manually to get the same result.

== Running against arbitrary references

Here are some examples on how we could run the scenario, with plain English explanations:

Run all scenarios, with all repos set to <tt>master</tt>:

  $ rake rocksteady
  
Run just the first scenario (you can use <tt>rake -T</tt> to see them all), with all repos set to <tt>master</tt>:

  $ rake rocksteady:scenario:1
  
The same, but setting <tt>rails</tt> to <tt>v2.0.2</tt>:

  $ rake rocksteady:scenario:1 REFS=rails:v2.0.2
  
and now with <tt>our_plugin</tt> set to the <tt>experimental</tt> branch:

  $ rake rocksteady:scenario:1 REFS=rails:v2.0.2,our_plugin:experimental
  
You can also use full references:

  $ rake rocksteady:scenario:1 REFS=rails:refs/tags/v2.0.2,our_plugin:refs/heads/experimental

== Output

Currently the output is a simple text-based table.  You'll need to refer to the output in the terminal to find _where_ your failures occur.  More granular, labelled scenario-level logging is on the roadmap.

== License

 Copyright (c) 2008 Bruce R. Williams

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
 obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
 files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
 restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
 copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
 conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
 NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
 HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
 WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
 OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


  
